# Incident: 2024-11-26 16-36-24

## Summary

For about 2 minutes, starting at 16:36:24 UTC, JWT Pizza failed to fulfill 5 pizza order requests. Developers were quickly notified of the failures and worked to promptly resolve the issue. The event was triggered by a chaos monkey that attacked the JWT Pizza Factory, leading to the factory's failure to deliver requested pizzas.

The event was detected by alerting rules that let the team know pizza creation requests were failing. All users who ordered pizza during the time of the outage were unable to receive their orders.

## Detection

The team discovered this issue quickly. The first alerts sent to team members were quickly acknowledged.

## Impact

For 4 minutes between 16:34 and 16:38 on 11/26/2024, all users were impacted by not being able to order pizzas. No tickets were submitted, but the application team was quickly notified of the failures.

## Timeline

**All times are UTC.**

- _16:36_ - Alert group registered.
- _16:36_ - Alert group assigned to route "default" with escalation chain "JWT Pizza."
- _16:36_ - Triggered step "Notify on-call from Schedule JWT Pizza."
- _16:36_ - Sent SMS to Trevor Bond.
- _16:36_ - SMS to Trevor Bond was delivered successfully.
- _16:37_ - Alert acknowledged by Trevor Bond. Logs revealed errors originating in the pizza factory, pointing to a chaos state.
- _16:38_ - URL provided by logs used to resolve the chaos state in the pizza factory. Alert resolved by Trevor Bond.

## Response

An on-call QA and DevOps engineer, Trevor Bond, acknowledged the alerts at 16:36. He reviewed the application logs and metrics, found the issue originated in the JWT Pizza Factory, and resolved the issue by accessing the URL provided by the Pizza Factory in chaos state to resolve the chaos.

# Root cause

The root cause of this issue was in the JWT Pizza Factory entering a chaos state.

# Prevention

To prevent this from happening in the future, the team will refrain from registering the application to be attacked by chaos monkeys in the future.

# Action items

The following measures are being taken to prevent this issue from occurring in the future:

1. QA and DevOps Engineer Trevor Bond will never again register the application for chaos.
